README.md, before:

# project-euler
Another implementation of Project Euler Problems :wink: #ProjectEuler100

## motivation

I just came across one freecodecamp [post](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/projecteuler100-coding-challenge-competitive-programming/), which tempted me to accept _#ProjectEuler100_ challenge. It's not like that prior to this I never thought of solving these beautiful mathematical problems, but I never opensourced it. So it's looks like a great opportunity to me, where I can challenge my thinking capability.

## solutions

I'm planning to stick to _GoLang_ as language of implementation. All solutions will stay in this [directory](./projecteuler/).

### [problem 1](./projecteuler/problem1.go)

#### statement

_If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23._

_Find the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000._

#### solution

233168

#### explanation

Iterating using a simple for loop _( starting from 3 )_, upto _(X -  1)_, where _X_ is given, and checking divisibility of current number by either 3 or 5. If it's divisible, then we add it up to _sum_ variable. And finally return _sum_, holding expected output.

### [problem 2](./projecteuler/problem2.go)

#### statement

_Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:_

_1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ..._

_By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms._

#### solution

4613732

#### explanation

Using dynamic programming style, for calculating fibonacci terms, recursive strategy will be straightforward but run slow ( and no doubt very expensive ). Starting with a slice of two elements `{1, 2}`, we'll keep calculating next fibonacci term until most recently computed term crosses _4,000,000_. And in each iteration, it'll check whether this term is even or not. If even, we'll add it up to _sum_ variable, which is initialized with _2_ ( because at very beginning _fibArr_, was only holding _2_ as even number )

**More coming soon ...** :wink:

Commit message:

solved problem 3; updated readme with explanation

README.md, after:

# project-euler
Another implementation of Project Euler Problems :wink: #ProjectEuler100

## motivation

I just came across one freecodecamp [post](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/projecteuler100-coding-challenge-competitive-programming/), which tempted me to accept _#ProjectEuler100_ challenge. It's not like that prior to this I never thought of solving these beautiful mathematical problems, but I never opensourced it. So it's looks like a great opportunity to me, where I can challenge my thinking capability.

## solutions

I'm planning to stick to _GoLang_ as language of implementation. All solutions will stay in this [directory](./projecteuler/).

### [problem 1](./projecteuler/problem1.go)

#### statement

_If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23._

_Find the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000._

#### solution

233168

#### explanation

Iterating using a simple for loop _( starting from 3 )_, upto _(X -  1)_, where _X_ is given, and checking divisibility of current number by either 3 or 5. If it's divisible, then we add it up to _sum_ variable. And finally return _sum_, holding expected output.

### [problem 2](./projecteuler/problem2.go)

#### statement

_Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:_

_1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ..._

_By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms._

#### solution

4613732

#### explanation

Using dynamic programming style, for calculating fibonacci terms, recursive strategy will be straightforward but run slow ( and no doubt very expensive ). Starting with a slice of two elements `{1, 2}`, we'll keep calculating next fibonacci term until most recently computed term crosses _4,000,000_. And in each iteration, it'll check whether this term is even or not. If even, we'll add it up to _sum_ variable, which is initialized with _2_ ( because at very beginning _fibArr_, was only holding _2_ as even number )

### [problem 3](./projecteuler/problem3.go)

#### statement

_The prime factors of 13195 are 5, 7, 13 and 29._

_What is the largest prime factor of the number 600851475143 ?_

#### solution

6857

#### explanation

First calculates square root of given number, and find out all primes which are under or equals to that sqrt value. Now we'll simply iterate over that prime holder slice, from last to first, i.e. from higher value prime to lower value prime, cause finally, we need to find out maximum prime factor of _num_. That'll allow us to perform lesser number of checkings.

Generation of primes under _X_, is done using dynamic programming strategy, by updating a slice holding primes, on runtime. Because we know any composite number must have prime factor, lesser than square root of that number. So we'll perform check with prime numbers only, which will save a lot of computation too.

**More coming soon ...** :wink:
